Welcome to an Introduction to Game Physics Section one.
In this section, we'll look at the benefits of creating physics based games.
We'll look at the three major concerns of any physics system, and we'll see how those concerns apply
to unity, Unity's physics system and project setup.
We'll also look at physics, life cycle and timing.
In this video integration, collision detection and collision resolution, we'll see.
These are the three major concerns of any physics system.
We'll see how unity handles each one.
And we'll take a look at physics in the Unity editor for the first time.
So what do we mean by game physics?
Typically, when we think of game physics as a player, we think more of rigid body simulation.
These are the calculations.
For example, a stack of cubes on how cubes can stand on top of each other, collide, interact.
But there's also spatial queries.
Spatial queries are non visual.
They're examining the space in the 3D world, using physics to check distances by projecting a line
or a collider through space to judge where the obstacles are in the world.
You can also look ahead to see potential future collisions.
And for example, you could evaluate is my gun of my character pointing at the enemy and have the enemy
with a reaction for that.
The three major concerns of any physics system are integration, collision detection and collision resolution.
Integration handles how physics fit into the game.
World Collision detection is regarding how objects are overlapping and how the system detects that,
and collision resolution is handling the reactions of those overlapping objects.
For example, objects could bounce or move away from each other.
Let's look at integration.
Using physics in unity is optional.
The way that unity projects are architected is game objects are in the three D space and each has one
or more components on top.
For example, in the screenshot we see a game object with the transform component that is obligatory.
If we want to add and integrate physics into this project, we just add a rigid body onto that same
game object.
And now the game object is aware of its own space.
Inside the physics world.
Each frame, the physics system will review all the components related to physics and do the right updates
and calculations.
Collision detection is the second.
It's the system that looks at all the physical based objects in the world and decides are they overlapping.
For example, in this image we see a blue square and a pink square overlapping by just a little bit.
Collision resolution is handling that overlap in the same situation.
The blue square and pink Square would be moved apart by the physics system because rigid bodies may
not overlap.
After the physics system executes, there will be no overlapping rigid bodies in the entire world.
Now, this happens so quickly that you don't perceive any overlap.
That's the ideal setup in a world.
You see objects interacting as if they are solid and cannot pass through each other.
Now let's look at a demo Inside Unity.
If you've downloaded the asset files that come with this course, open the core project and browse to
the folder.
Section one.
Video two, you'll see a scene called three D Pyramid.
We'll take a look at that together.
You can follow along here.
We'll examine the differences of start, stop and step as we control the scene and we'll examine some
of the objects in the scene to look for a rigid body and collider.
Here we are inside unity.
If you download the course materials that come with this course, you'll see a project just like this.
Inside, you can drill through the project window to find the related scene that we'll be touching.
Or you can drill down through this menu here that I've created.
So if we go to Section one.
Video two, three, D Pyramid.
We open it up, we can hit, play, pause and step through the scene.
Step goes frame by frame.
Here we're going to play.
We see these boxes settle upon each other.
We can then manipulate the scene and we see real world physics interaction.
Each one of these cubes is set up in a similar way, and in the inspector window we can see we've got
a box collider and a rigid body.
We'll be learning about those two physics components in future lessons in the next video unities physics
system, past, present and future.
We'll look at what is unity.
We'll take a step back and look at the system itself.
We'll look at what libraries and power unity physics today, and we'll look into the future of unity
physics.